he
welcome back to review recap
today i will be showing you a true
adventurous story of few mount everest
climbers
spoilers ahead
sit back and enjoy
the movie opens up showing that edmund
hillary and tenzing were the first two
people to successfully climb mount
everest
since then only hundreds of
professionals have attempted to do the
same with one in four dying
set in the year 1996 rob hall gathered
his team adventure consultants to go
ahead and climb everest themselves rob
meets with his team including
experienced climber beck doug yasuko and
co-guide andy harold harris
together they plan to commence on what
they hope will be a successful and
adventurous expedition
six weeks before the first climb rob and
his team are in new zealand ready to
depart from the airport he's with the
manager of the base camp helen and his
friend slash co-worker guy
rob informs his friends that he booked
journalist john to do an article on them
which he was going to do for another
expedition team mountain madness
rob later explains to his team the
dangerous altitudes and temperatures of
the death zone on everest which they
hope to get passed quick enough before
things get really messy before boarding
the plane rob says goodbye to his
pregnant wife january rob promises to
return home before the birth
jan later sends him a message to let him
know that they'll be having a girl the
expeditions make it to the bottom of the
mountain before heading on up toward the
base camp
there rob runs into scott the leader of
mountain madness he's a bit peeved at
rob for getting john to move to their
expedition but is still on fine terms
later rob introduces the team to the
camps dr caroline
she and rob remind the climbers of the
lack of oxygen at the top of everest as
well as the dangers of hypothermia and
hypoxia we see clips of climber
suffering to the cold and dying beck
calls his wife peach from the base camp
after he forgot to send her a message
for their anniversary she doesn't like
him climbing mountains and has stated
that she'd divorce him if he ever
climbed another mountain
he didn't listen
adventure consultants and other
expeditions move from base camp to camp
to they walk across a fixed ladder
acting as a bridge hanging over a
crevasse
huge ice chunks break off and slide down
under the weight of all the climbers
causing the ladder to shake making beck
nearly fall over
he hangs on for dear life and is guided
by rob the rest of the way over
facing some concerns rob suggests to
scott that they join their expeditions
together to get to the top safely and to
ascend at a later date scott is hesitant
saying that he and rob have different
styles but he ultimately agrees to the
union the two meet with their teams
later to state that they plan on having
eight oxygen tanks at the top
scott's guide anatoly says he won't use
oxygen rob urges the rest of his team to
use oxygen
the ac team gathers an attempt at night
to discuss why they're climbing doug
says that he wants to prove that an
ordinary person can do the impossible
yasuko wants to be the oldest woman to
climb everest the teams encounter
problems on their summit such as several
climbers beginning to fall ill beck
having trouble seeing due to a surgery
he had a year before and no fixed ropes
over the south summit forcing some
climbers to turn back
beck stays behind on the southeast ridge
guy who is scaling the mountain next to
everest observes rob and company from
his pov and contacts them to make sure
they're okay
later it's shown that finally some of
the climbers start to make it to the
very top and mark their spots on everest
anatoly is the first to touch the top
and yasuko puts a japanese flag on there
rob contacts helen back at base camp to
inform her and the team that they made
it to the top
she and the rest of the camp cheer the
team on doug is still climbing despite
his health rapidly deteriorating and his
oxygen levels dropping
rob runs into him on the way down and he
insists to doug that it's over and that
he gave it a good run but doug is not
yet satisfied and decides he wants to
keep climbing
moved by his determination rob guides
dug to the top
a huge blizzard starts moving toward
everest spelling trouble for the
descending climbers
rob and doug get hit as the storm hits
the mountain forcing them to take cover
as they get lower rob notices there
aren't any oxygen tanks where he
requested so he radios helen to send
some up he and doug keep walking as the
winds intensify
doug barely conscious unbuckles himself
from rob's guide rope his dizziness
combined with a heavy wind causes him to
fall over the edge to his death
beck's vision worsens while scott starts
suffering from hypothermia forcing them
to stay behind from their respective
groups
the other climbers go get help leaving
beck behind with yasuko
and andy goes up to rob wherein rob
tells andy that doug is gone
rob and andy wait on the side of the
mountain until it's safe to keep going
unfortunately andy begins to feel the
hypoxia making him believe he's
overheating and he removes his clothes
leading to his death helen sitting in
the tent with caroline and guy who has
come to join the camp radios rob and
urges him to keep moving downward he
tells her that his hands and feet are
frozen and also that doug and andy are
dead bringing everyone in the tent to
tears helen calls jan and gets her to
talk to rob by putting the phone next to
the walkie-talkie jan encourages her
husband to get down safe reminding him
that he has to return for the birth of
their baby rob is told by helen that the
people meant to bring him the oxygen
tanks aren't coming because of the
terrible conditions
he tries to keep moving on his own but
even he knows he can't make it in his
condition
he falls over and calls helen again
she calls jan again so that she can
speak to him one last time
he tells her he is comfortable and asks
how sarah is doing
jan tearfully agrees to call her sarah
rob's last words to her or sleep well my
sweetheart
please don't worry too much
rob passes away under the snow and ice
scott succumbs to the cold and lies in
the snow to die
yasuko has also died next to beck's side
helen calls peach to tell her that bec
never returned to camp which she must in
turn tell her kids
beck however despite being frostbitten
partially blind and almost totally
frozen starts to get up and slowly head
on back to camp
jon spots him and radios helen to let
her know that beck is alive
she in turn calls peach to tell her the
news
together they get a helicopter to fly up
and bring back back
the helicopter is almost brought down by
the winds and extra weight but they
succeed in bringing him down where he
gets heated up
helen and the other climbers return home
they are seen meeting jan at the airport
and tearfully hugging her beck also
returns home and hugs peach the movie
ends showing rob's body frozen and
almost completely covered in snow the
final text states that rob's body is
still up on everest alongside the others
that perished we see photos of the real
rob doug andy yasuko and scott beck lost
his nose in both hands due to frostbite
jan gave birth to a girl whom she named
sarah we then see a brief video clip of
the real sarah arnold hall
thanks for watching
make sure to subscribe and turn on
notifications and help us to grow